---
layout: ../../layouts/SemesterMarkdown.astro
---

# Syllabus

## Welcome

This a redesigned version of CS 465 that gives a wider introduction to computer
security than in the past and tries to use only CS 224 and CS 260 as
prerequisites. We intend for the course to become accessible to sophomores and
juniors.

## Course Description

This course is designed to provide a broad introduction to digital security and
privacy. It helps students think about security as a software engineer and
become ready to take further coursework in security and privacy.

Major topics include:

- operating system security
- software security
- network security
- web security
- threat modeling
- usable security and privacy

This course is designed to meet the [BYU Aims](https://aims.byu.edu/): this
course should be spiritually strengthening, intellectually enlargening,
character building, and lead to lifelong learning and service.

## Learning Outcomes

The learning outcomes for this class are:

- **Fluency**: Develop fluency in the language and concepts related to securing
  computing systems

- **Attacks and Defenses**: Be able to execute common attacks against computer
  systems and deploy defenses against those attacks

- **Secure software**: Write software that uses cryptographic primitives to
  securely communicate and store information

- **Security Mindset**: Think like an attacker to identify key assets, risks,
  and mitigations associated with the security and privacy of a system

## Materials

We will use a few different free resources for this class. These are all linked
in the class schedule. The two primary resources are:

### Computer Security and the Internet: Tools and Jewels from Malware to Bitcoin

Second Edition. Paul C. van Oorschot. Springer, 2021.

Available at: https://people.scs.carleton.ca/~paulv/toolsjewels.html

If you are on campus or using the BYU VPN, you can also access a free PDF of the
book here: https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-030-83411-1

### Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces

Available at: https://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/

## Course Requirements

- Homework: Homework is used to practice material from the class and get you
  ready for projects. Homework is graded on a participation basis and is worth
  10% of your grade.

- Projects: Projects give students hands-on experience with the topics covered
  in class. Projects are worth 70% of your grade

- Discipleship: A set of assignments that will help you develop into a
  disciple-scholar. These assignments are graded based on demonstrating
  disciple-scholarship and are worth 20% of your grade.

## Learning Environment

Prior to each class, there will be an assigned reading. Students are expected to
complete this reading and come prepared with any questions they have about the
material in the reading. Class time will be divided into three sections:

- answering questions about the reading
- reviewing key topics from the reading
- doing exercises related to difficult to understand sections in the reading

At the end of most units, students will complete a project to demonstrate their
mastery of the material covered in the lectures.

There are no exams this semester, because the assignments are designed to cover
all of the material. Instead, a final project will have you learn something new
beyond what was covered in class.

## Course Communications

- Use this website for the course schedule and assignments.

- Use Learning Suite to turn in assignments and see your grade.

- Use Discord for class discussion. I encourage you to post your questions on
  Discord so other students, the TAs, and the instructor can answer them for
  everyone. Here is [a Discord invitation](https://discord.gg/eEwv3SEdyu).

- Use TA office hours to get help on course concepts and the projects. TAs are
  not expected to debug your program, but can talk to you about the concepts and
  whether your solution is going in the right direction.

- Use Instructor office hours as needed. Office hours with the instructor are
  generally underutilized! You are welcome to stop by for:

  - questions about concepts or assignments you aren't clear on
  - general advice about the CS degree
  - general advice about your career
  - just getting to know each other

## How to Be Successful in This Course

Come to class having finished the readings, prepared to ask any questions you
had about the material. For projects, start early. This will enable you to get
the help you need. Most importantly, if you need help, please come and talk to a
TA or to me. We really are here to help you.

## Collaboration

### Projects

_Most assignments are designed for individual work_. You are welcome to discuss
the assignment with other class members and how to solve it, but you may not
view, share, or copy another student's code.

There may be _one or two_ group assignments for this class. In those cases, you
are encouraged to work together. Please turn in a single assignment for your
group. Put all of your names on the assignment, and then we will be sure to get
you all the same grade.

## Late Policy

The late penalty is 2% per day, for a maximum of 30% off. This should give
everyone flexibility to be a little late without harming their grade, e.g. for
job interviews or other travel.

You should talk to me if:

- You are falling more than a week behind in class, so we can make a plan to
  help you succeed.

- You have official university accommodations that I can help you with.

- You have any physical or mental health issues, or major life events that will
  impact your ability to finish.

## Belonging

My goal is for everyone in this class to know that they are valued and belong. I
wholeheartedly support the
[BYU Statement on Belonging](https://belonging.byu.edu/statement-on-belonging).

The TA and instructors pledge to answer all questions in a caring and helpful
manner.

If you feel you are lacking support and would like some mentoring, please
contact [the CS belonging team](https://diversity.cs.byu.edu) in TMCB 1112. They
are a wonderful resource to get you any help you need.

If you have difficulty with your mental health, please seek counseling. See
[CAPS](https://caps.byu.edu) for counseling and the
[University Accommodations Center](https://uac.byu.edu) for accommodations. If
you need help with accommodations, send me a note on Discord and we can handle
that quickly and easily for you. Likewise if , let's talk about getting you some
help.

I strive to be supportive of anyone who struggles with the class, anyone who is
from a historically underrepresented group in CS, anyone who is LGBTQ+, or
anyone who has an illness or other extenuating circumstances that is impacting
their performance in the class. You are welcome to talk to me any time about
difficulties you are having.

## Academic Integrity

Please remember the reason you are at
BYU--[to become like Jesus Christ](https://aims.byu.edu/byu-mission-statement).
Part of this journey is to study and learn (see
[D&C 88:118](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/88?lang=eng&id=118#p118),
[D&C 93:36](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/93?lang=eng&id=36#p36),
[D&C 130:18-19](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/scriptures/dc-testament/dc/130?lang=eng&id=18-19#p18)).

When you fail to be honest in your studies, you are missing an opportunity to
grow more like Christ. We encourage you to do your utmost to ensure that you
don't compromise your integrity as you work to learn the material in this
course.

Please review the
[BYU Honor Code](https://policy.byu.edu/view/church-educational-system-honor-code)
and the
[Academic Honesty Policy](https://policy.byu.edu/view/academic-honesty-policy).

If you are tempted to cheat because you are falling behind in the class, please
come talk to me instead. I'm sure we can work something out to help you master
the material for this class.

Try to focus on _collaboration_ instead of _cheating_. Collaboration means
discussing ideas and approaches to solving a problem, without viewing or sharing
code.

### What constitutes cheating?

Cheating includes:

- Copying part or all of another student’s project code with the exception of
  your partner(s) on group projects. This includes students from previous
  semesters.

- Using an AI-assisted tool to write your code.

- Copying code from online sources without crediting them. You are welcome to
  look up solutions to specific problems (e.g. how to use a library) online, but
  should not be searching for exact solutions online.

- Using or paraphrasing someone else’s words without crediting them.

If you are unsure about whether or not something constitutes cheating, please
confirm with an instructor or TA.

### What happens if you cheat?

If you have chosen to be dishonest, please come talk to your instructor! I will
lovingly help you as you seek to reconcile with the truth. It will likely feel
uncomfortable and will take courage and humility, but the peace and satisfaction
of knowing you are again in the right is completely worth it. Learn for yourself
the joy of repentance.

The usual outcome for cheating on an assignment is a zero on that assignment. If
you have cheated on multiple assignments, you will receive an E for the course.

In most cases, the names of those who have cheated will be given to the Honor
Code Office.

## BYU Policies

### Honor Code

In keeping with the principles of the BYU Honor Code, students are expected to
be honest in all of their academic work. Academic honesty means, most
fundamentally, that any work you present as your own must in fact be your own
work and not that of another. Violations of this principle may result in a
failing grade in the course and additional disciplinary action by the
university. Students are also expected to adhere to the Dress and Grooming
Standards. Adherence demonstrates respect for yourself and others and ensures an
effective learning and working environment. It is the university's expectation,
and every instructor's expectation in class, that each student will abide by all
Honor Code standards. Please call the Honor Code Office at 422-2847 if you have
questions about those standards.

### Preventing & Responding to Sexual Misconduct

The health and well-being of students is of paramount importance at Brigham
Young University. If you or someone you know has experienced sexual harassment
(including sexual violence), there are many resources available for assistance.

In accordance with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, BYU prohibits
unlawful sex discrimination, including sexual harassment, against any
participant in its education programs or activities. The university also
prohibits sexual harassment by its personnel and students. Sexual harassment
occurs when

- a person is subjected to unwelcome sexual speech or conduct so severe,
  pervasive, and offensive that it effectively denies their ability to access
  any BYU education program or activity;
- any aid, benefit, or service of BYU is conditioned on a person’s participation
  in unwelcome sexual conduct; or
- a person suffers sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, or
  stalking on the basis of sex.

University policy requires all faculty members to promptly report incidents of
sexual harassment that come to their attention in any way, including through
face-to-face conversations, a written class assignment or paper, class
discussion, email, text, or social media post. Incidents of sexual harassment
should be reported to the Title IX Coordinator at t9coordinator@byu.edu or (801)
422-8692 or 1085 WSC. Reports may also be submitted online at
https://titleix.byu.edu/report or 1-888-238-1062 (24-hours a day).

BYU offers confidential resources for those affected by sexual harassment,
including the university’s Sexual Assault Survivor Advocate, as well as a number
of non-confidential resources and services that may be helpful. Additional
information about Title IX, the university’s Sexual Harassment Policy, reporting
requirements, and resources can be found at http://titleix.byu.edu or by
contacting the university’s Title IX Coordinator.

### Student Disability

Brigham Young University is committed to providing a working and learning
atmosphere that reasonably accommodates qualified persons with disabilities. A
disability is a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more major life activities. Whether an impairment is substantially limiting
depends on its nature and severity, its duration or expected duration, and its
permanent or expected permanent or long-term impact. Examples include vision or
hearing impairments, physical disabilities, chronic illnesses, emotional
disorders (e.g., depression, anxiety), learning disorders, and attention
disorders (e.g., ADHD). If you have a disability which impairs your ability to
complete this course successfully, please contact the University Accessibility
Center (UAC), 2170 WSC or 801-422-2767 to request a reasonable accommodation.
The UAC can also assess students for learning, attention, and emotional
concerns. If you feel you have been unlawfully discriminated against on the
basis of disability, please contact the Equal Opportunity Office at
801-422-5895, eo_manager@byu.edu, or visit https://hrs.byu.edu/equal-opportunity
for help.”
